---
layout: post
title:      "From Biologist to Coder"
date:       2020-03-26 13:21:03 -0400
permalink:  from_biologist_to_coder
---






I remember lying on my hardwood floor, sobbing in my mom and my little sister Jean's arms after having received my final rejection letter from NYU Dental school. I didn't know what was to come of my future. As my faith is my compass and purpose in life I couldn’t understand how God wanted me to glorify Him if I couldn’t continue on this path? 

I had spent my nights studying in the library for my intense biology, chemistry and physics exams throughout high school and college with the hopes of getting into dental school and completing my mission of spreading love and helping make children, families and the poor smile. My time volunteering at many dental community relief projects assisting many people who had never seen a dentist before in their life only solidified my admiration for this profession. I never pictured myself doing anything else but working in dental missions Low-income(LIC) and Low Middle Income countries(LMIC) working with communities facing poverty  without equal access to dental care or oral health education. 

What was most difficult was, unbeknownst to myself,  that I intertwined my identity with the belief that I had to become a dentist to be happy and serve others best. I never realized there were so many different vehicles to love God, serve God, change the world, help others in need, and create smiles, all while doing something I loved. 


Growing up, I had always cultivated a passion for creativity and technology, from singing, painting, reading, photography, videography, and creating DVD slideshows with iMovie for family events. I remember the first day my parents brought home a chunky beige 1999 Dell computer. I utilized clipart and WordArt in Microsoft to make beautiful birthday cards, flyers, invitations and fancy Christmas lists for my parents to take to Santa each year. With the advent of Youtube in 2007, I found a creative hub to post song covers. In highschool, I took a summer HTML course that taught me how to build my own website with images. In 2011, my mom went to a garage sale and brought home an old 2002 iMac G4 desktop that was locked. I remember researching how to hack into this computer and after days of trying to input different code, I was successful at logging in and configuring the device. My family dubbed me the "hacker" of the family and always asked me to fix technology glitches on their computers, TV's, phones, HDMI cord issues, etc. I was always the one asked to help solve a technology issue. When I didn't know how to do something, I immediately researched it and found a solution. I loved it.

At Virginia Tech, I had to learn how to use biological computing tools, such as CRISPR/Cas9, for genetics lectures and cell molecular research labs. For my biochemistry courses, it was integral we learned how to use PyMOL, a molecular visualization system, that helps to understand and breakdown 3-D versions of molecular proteins. Technology was an integral part of my biological studies. 

Since graduating from Virginia Tech with a bachelor of science, I have been working in my parents’ cleaning company, as a traffic data analyst for an engineering company and most recently in the education field as a second grade teaching aide. I've learned that I have many passions outside becoming a dentist that I would never have discovered had I not tried something outside my comfort zone. I realized my love for teaching students, baking and creating new dairy-free, gluten-free and sugar-free treats, cooking anti-inflammatory organic meals, blending together new healthy green smoothie recipes, practicing the art of yoga and song-writing Christian/Worship pop music on the piano. I also have a passion for entrepreneurship and hope to start my own healthy online baking company, Joyful Bites, with the tools I learn at Flatiron. 

I became inspired to pursue a career change and wanted to do something challenging but rewarding. This past November, my older sister Karol suggested I look into a coding bootcamp. I believe God speaks to us through people. After looking at different coding bootcamps, my sisters suggested I look into the philosophy and reputation of Flatiron School. Being a big fan of Karlie Kloss, I had heard about the non-profit "Kode with Klossy" partnership she had with Flatiron but knew it was for high-school women. I was not a computer science major in college, nor had I ever considered becoming a software engineer but I was excited when I researched more into the mission of Flatiron School. Avi's story really inspired me to try and explore what this new coding world was all about. As a first-generation college student, a minority and proud Latina woman, I was looking at programs that would be able to support me economically with my current financial status and this is what Flatiron does. Flatiron is not only an amazing coding course that carefully handcrafts each lesson for beginners to emerge as coding ninjas but also has incredible teachers and coaches, technical assistance, and convincing job reports with high prospects to land a job. I could focus on paying back the cost of the program after I found a job. This was unlike any other programs I had heard about. I was nervous but after a few months I finished the bootcamp pre-work, applied and was accepted into the program. The day I received my acceptance I remember getting on my knees and thanking God for this unbelievable gift. He had helped me to not give up when I could not see a future ahead and told me to keep running the race and trusting him. For the first time, I had peace about this new coding adventure I was embarking on.

I remember reading an article that said that to be a better coder, you should attend a Hackathon to learn valuable skills from other fellow coders that you would not be able to learn in a course. Trembling but determined, I packed my sleeping bag and boarded the 5 hour bus to my first Hackathon called "VT Hacks" at Virginia Tech in February 2020. I knew no one, I was one of the only women, most people were experienced computer science majors, and on top of that someone made fun of my sleeping bag and suitcase while in line for registration. "Breathe, you know you are meant to be here," I told myself. I took courage and introduced myself to strangers and within a few hours I helped bring together a team of awesome individuals that I had the pleasure of coding with for the next few days. We barely slept and ate too many snacks but I learned the importance of collaboration with others that have different points of view and coming together collectively to create a coding project. 

VTHacks is an MLH (Major League Hackers) Hackathon where students from different universities come together to spend 36 hours working in teams to create and build a project they are passionate about. By the end of VT Hacks 7, I won two awards at the awards ceremony. I won the Major League Hackers award and the VTHacks Social Media award. I also had the honor to demo my first real coding project to a panel of judges called #adulting. A (fin-tech) personally curated finance app for millennials to dominate their money management and work towards a debt free life. #adulting offers simple breakdown videos of financial concepts, such as what is a 401k and how to fill out a tax return. You get a customized feed of financial topics and advice on the financial education you personally need one touch away!

[https://sandienunez.github.io/adulting/


Attending this Hackathon gave me the opportunity to be surrounded by people who love coding. This experience also made me realize that I love coding. I look forward to creating more inspiring projects that help others and make them smile!


